h3. 3.1.0 (17 Jul 2014)
  2014-07-17: Bump solrizer version to ~> 3.3 [Justin Coyne]

  2014-07-17: Use the system libxml2 on travis [Justin Coyne]

  2014-07-17: Remove dependency on mediashelf-loggable [Justin Coyne]

  2014-06-13: Setting values on a proxy term should build the parent terms if they
  don't exist [Justin Coyne]

  2014-06-05: Handle invalid time for Rails 3 [Justin Coyne]

  2014-06-02: Updating solrizer, correcting rspec deprecations [Adam Wead]

h3. 3.0.1 (25 Jun 2013)
  Fix bug where values that were the same as the existing values were 
    removed from the update list

h3. 3.0.0 (20 Jun 2013)
  Return an array instead of a hash Term#update_values
  When passing an array to Term#update_values, it will overwrite all of
    the existing values of that term.
  OM::XML::Document#find_by_terms_and_value should match strings with 
    text() = xpath query, rather than contains().  

h3. 2.2.1 (20 Jun 2013)
  Revert deprecation of passing Hash values

h3. 2.2.0 (20 June 2013)
  Deprecate passing Hash values into DynamicNode#val= or 
  Document#update_attributes. This behavior will be removed in 3.0.0
  Rails 4 support
  Pass nil in order to remove a node (instead of blank string)

h3. 2.1.2 (3 May 2013)
  Fix missing comma after exception

h3. 2.1.1 (2 May 2013)
  bump solrizer to 3.1.0

h3. 2.1.0 (29 April 2013)
  support for element names with periods in them
  support for 'type: :time'
  

h3. 2.0.0
  Support new solr schema

h3. 1.8.0
  Removed unused mods_article_terminology.xml
  Replacing :data_type with :type; deprecating :data_type
  Making test related to HYDRA-647 pending
  Adding .type method for ruby 1.8.7 compatibility
  XML serialization should use the data_type node name and not type
  Update homepage in gemspec
  Remove .rvmrc
  Remove debugger from gemfile

h3. 1.7.0
  Add casting to dates and integers when you specify the :type attribute on a terminology node

h3. 1.6.1
  Integration spec to illustrate selective querying.
  Add #use_terminology and #extend_terminology methods to extend existing OM terminologies

h3. 1.6.0
  Delegate all methods on the dynamic node to the found values
  Allow arrays to be set on dynamic nodes

h3. 1.5.3

  HYDRA-657 OM Terms that share a name with methods on Nokogiri Builders have incorrect builder templates
  HYDRA-674 XML Builder templates incorrect for :none attributes

h3. 1.5.2

  HYDRA-742 Can't modify frozen string (parameters in rails 3.2, when using ruby 1.9.3)

h3. 1.5.1

  HYDRA-737 OM tests fail under ree 1.8.7-2011.12
  (Fix also applies to ruby 1.8.7-p357)
  
h3. 1.5.0

  HYDRA-358 Added support for namespaceless terminologies

h3. 1.4.4

  HYDRA-415 https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/HYDRA-415 Fixed insert of attribute nodes
  update to rspec2
  compatibility fixes for ruby 1.9
  RedCloth updated to 4.2.9
  Replace local 'delimited_list' logic with Array#join

h3. 1.4.3

  HYDRA-681 https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/HYDRA-681 Om was calling .dirty when updating nodes, it should only do that when it's operating on a Nokogiri:Datastream
  HYDRA-682 https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/HYDRA-682 Om first level terms support update

h3. 1.4.2
  
  "HYDRA-667":https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/HYDRA-667 Fixed bug where updating nodes wasn't marking the document as dirty

h3. 1.4.0

  Added dynamic node access DSL. Added a warning when calling an index on a proxy term.

h3. 1.3.0

  Document automatically includes Validation module, meaning that you can now call .validate on any document

h3. 1.2.4

  TerminologyBuilder.root now passes on its options to the root term builder that it creates.

h3. 1.2.3

  NamedTermProxies can now point to terms at the root of a Terminology

h3. 1.2.0

  added OM::XML::TemplateRegistry for built-in templating and creation of new XML nodes

h3. 1.1.1
   
  "HYDRA-395":https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/HYDRA-395: Fixed bug that prevented you from appending term values with apostrophes in them

h2. 1.1.0

HYDRA-371: Provide a way to specify a term that points to nodes where an attribute is not set

  Add support for this syntax in Terminologies, where an attribute value can be :none.  When an attribute's value is set to :none, a not() predicate is used in the resulting xpath 

    t.computing_id(:path=>"namePart", :attributes=>{:type=>:none}) 
    
    will result in an xpath that looks like:
    
    //namePart[not(@type)] 

namePart[not(@type)]

h3. 1.0.1

HYDRA-329: Allow for NamedTermProxies at root of Terminology

h2. 1.0.0

Stable release 

h3. 0.1.10

Improving generation of constrained xpath queries

h3. 0.1.9

Improving support for deeply nested nodes (still needs work though)

h3. 0.1.5

* root_property now inserts an entry into the properties hash
* added .generate method for building new instances of declared properties
* refinements to accessor_xpath

h3. 0.1.4

*  made attribute_xpath idempotent

h3. 0.1.3

*  added accessor_generic_name and accessor_hierarchical_name methods

h3. 0.1.2

* changed syntax for looking up accessors with (optional) index values -- no using [{:person=>1}, :first_name]  instead of [:person, 1, :first_name]

h3. 0.1.1

RENAMED to om (formerly opinionated-xml)

* broke up functionality into Modules
* added OM::XML::Accessor functionality

h3. 0.1

Note: OX v.1 Does not handle treating attribute values as the changing "value" of a node
