h1. om (Optinionated Metadata)

A library to help you tame sprawling XML schemas like MODS.

OM allows you to define a “terminology” to ease translation between XML and ruby objects – you can query the xml for Nodes or node values without ever writing a line of XPath.

OM “terms” are ruby symbols you define (in the terminology) that map specific XML content into ruby object attributes.

h2. Tutorials

* "Getting Started":http://hudson.projecthydra.org/job/om/Documentation/file.GETTING_STARTED.html
* "Querying Documents":http://hudson.projecthydra.org/job/om/Documentation/file.QUERYING_DOCUMENTS.html
* "Updating Documents":http://hudson.projecthydra.org/job/om/Documentation/file.UPDATING_DOCUMENTS.html
* "Getting Fancy":http://hudson.projecthydra.org/job/om/Documentation/file.GETTING_FANCY.html

h2. Common OM Patterns

"Common OM Patterns":http://hudson.projecthydra.org/job/om/Documentation/file.COMMON_OM_PATTERNS.html

h3. Solrizing Documents

The solrizer gem provides support for indexing XML documents into Solr based on OM Terminologies.  That process is documented in the "solrizer documentation":http://hudson.projecthydra.org/job/solrizer/Documentation/file.SOLRIZING_OM_DOCUMENTS.html

h2. OM in the Wild

We have a page on the Hydra wiki with a list of OM Terminologies in active use: "OM Terminologies in the Wild":https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/hydra/OM+Terminologies+in+the+Wild

h2. Acknowledgements

Creator: Matt Zumwalt ("MediaShelf":http://yourmediashelf.com)

Thanks to 

Bess Sadler, who enabled us to take knowledge gleaned from developing Blacklight and apply it to OM metadata indexing
Ross Singer
Those who participated in the Opinionated MODS breakout session at Code4Lib 2010

h2. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Matt Zumwalt. See LICENSE for details.
